Start working on developer overview (#2599)
NVIDIA/cccl: docs/cuda_parallel/developer_overview.rst

            printf("thread %d prints value %d\n", threadIdx.x, op(value));
        }
      )XXX";

We can compile the CUDA C++ code to PTX using NVRTC:

.. code-block:: c++

      nvrtcProgram prog;
      const char *name = "test_kernel";
      nvrtcCreateProgram(&prog, kernel_source.c_str(), name, 0, nullptr, nullptr);

      cudaDeviceProp deviceProp;
      cudaGetDeviceProperties(&deviceProp, 0);

      const int cc_major = deviceProp.major;
      const int cc_minor = deviceProp.minor;
      const std::string arch = std::string("-arch=sm_") + std::to_string(cc_major) + std::to_string(cc_minor);

      const char* args[] = { arch.c_str(), "-rdc=true" };
      const int num_args = sizeof(args) / sizeof(args[0]);

      // Compile the CUDA C++ kernel to PTX
      std::size_t ptx_size{};
      nvrtcResult compile_result = nvrtcCompileProgram(prog, num_args, args);
      nvrtcGetPTXSize(prog, &ptx_size);
      std::unique_ptr<char[]> ptx{new char[ptx_size]};
      nvrtcGetPTX(prog, ptx.get());
      nvrtcDestroyProgram(&prog);

This gives us PTX code that we can link with the operator using nvJitLink:

.. code-block:: c++

      const char* link_options[] = { arch.c_str() };

>       // Link PTX comping from kernel and PTX coming from Python operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // Link PTX coming from kernel and PTX coming from Python operator
```

      nvJitLinkHandle handle;
      nvJitLinkCreate(&handle, 1, link_options);
      nvJitLinkAddData(handle, NVJITLINK_INPUT_PTX, ptx.get(), ptx_size, name);
      nvJitLinkAddData(handle, NVJITLINK_INPUT_PTX, op_ptx, op_ptx_size, name);
      nvJitLinkComplete(handle);

      // Get resulting cubin
      std::size_t cubin_size{};
      nvJitLinkGetLinkedCubinSize(handle, &cubin_size);
      std::unique_ptr<char[]> cubin{new char[cubin_size]};
      nvJitLinkGetLinkedCubin(handle, cubin.get());
      nvJitLinkDestroy(&handle);

> Now we have linked codet that can be loaded as a CUDA library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have linked code that can be loaded as a CUDA library.
```

As soon as it's loaded, we can find the kernel in it.
As soon as we have the kernel, we can launch it:

.. code-block:: c++

      // Load cubin
      CUlibrary library;
      cuLibraryLoadData(&library, cubin.get(), nullptr, nullptr, 0, nullptr, nullptr, 0);

      // Get kernel pointer out of the library
      CUkernel kernel;
      cuLibraryGetKernel(&kernel, library, "kernel");

      // Launch the kernel
      void *kernel_args[] = { &value };
      cuLaunchKernel((CUfunction)kernel, 1, 1, 1, 4, 1, 1, 0, 0, kernel_args, nullptr);

Now the output of the Python program would be:

.. code-block:: bash

    thread 0 prints value 84
    thread 1 prints value 84
    thread 2 prints value 84
    thread 3 prints value 84

This works, but it's not optimal.
If you take a look at the resulting cubin, you'll see that it contains a function call.
But if you'd compile this operator as part of the C++ translation unit, the function would be inlined.

> Apart from presense of function call protocol, linking PTX causes extensive use of local memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the presence of function call protocol, linking PTX also causes extensive use of local memory.
```

It's sufficient to change our compilation line to:

.. code-block:: python

    ltoir, _ = numba.cuda.compile(op, sig=numba.int32(numba.int32), target='cuda', options={'link': True})

On the C++ end, it's sufficient to replace PTX with LTOIR:

.. code-block:: c++

    const char* args[] = { arch.c_str(), "-rdc=true", "-dlto" };
    const int num_args = sizeof(args) / sizeof(args[0]);

    nvrtcResult compile_result = nvrtcCompileProgram(prog, num_args, args);

    std::size_t ltoir_size{};
    nvrtcGetLTOIRSize(prog, &ltoir_size);
    std::unique_ptr<char[]> ltoir{new char[ltoir_size]};
    nvrtcGetLTOIR(prog, ltoir.get());
    nvrtcDestroyProgram(&prog);

    const char* link_options[] = { "-lto", arch.c_str() };

    nvJitLinkHandle handle;
    nvJitLinkCreate(&handle, 2, link_options);
    nvJitLinkAddData(handle, NVJITLINK_INPUT_LTOIR, ltoir.get(), ltoir_size, name);
    nvJitLinkAddData(handle, NVJITLINK_INPUT_LTOIR, op_ltoir, op_ltoir_size, name);

If you take a look at the generated cubin now, you'll see a single shuffle instruction instead of a function call.
In other words, LTO-IR allowed us to inline the operator and achieve better performance.

> Now we have a working prototype allowing us to pass Python functions to CUDA C++ kernels withour sacrifising performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have a working prototype allowing us to pass Python functions to CUDA C++ kernels without sacrificing performance.
```

To get the pointer to CPU memory, we could use ``ctypes.byref``.
Alternatively,
we could allocate memory using ``numpy.array`` and later retreive the pointer with ``.ctypes.data_as(ctypes.c_void_p)``.

The only missing part that separates us from cuda.parallel
is the fact that all the kernels in CUDA C++ Core Compute Libraries are templates.
Let's make our kernel a template as well.

.. code-block:: c++

    std::string kernel_source = storage_t + R"XXX(
        extern "C" __device__ int op(char *state);

        template <class T>
        __global__ void kernel(T value) {
            printf("thread %d prints value %d\n", threadIdx.x, op(value.data));
        }
    )XXX";

Unfortunately, this is not sufficient.
We have to instantiate the kernel template.
To do that, we can use the following NVRTC API:

.. code-block:: c++

    nvrtcProgram prog;
    const char *name = "test_kernel";
    nvrtcCreateProgram(&prog, kernel_source.c_str(), name, 0, nullptr, nullptr);

    // Get the name of the storage_t type
    std::string storage_t_name;
    nvrtcGetTypeName<storage_t>(&storage_t_name);

    // Get the name of the kernel

>     std::string kernel_name = "kernel<" + storage_t_name + ">";

Reviewer 2: This was discussed in a call a while ago. Now that we have this write-up (many thanks!), I see why it was argued that `nvrtcGetTypeName` is needed 😅  

This discussion presents a difference in the developer worldview: 
- For developers assembling the kernel strings in C++:
   - It is natural to say "I need to call `nvrtcGetTypeName` to get the type name so that I know what template specializations I need to feed it into `nvrtcAddNameExpression`". However, 
- For developers assembling the kernel strings in Python:
   - It is natural for us to think along the line that, since both `storage_t` and `kernel` strings are at our disposal, we can immediately assemble `kernel_name` in process and bypass `nvrtcGetTypeName`" (which is actually a [known trick](https://github.com/cupy/cupy/blob/b73ba5352850a84d1a86bcdad127619fee892fbc/docs/source/user_guide/kernel.rst?plain=1#L439)). This certainly requires "thinking everything at run time."

Below is a `cuda.core` based demo:
```python
from cuda.core.experimental import Device
from cuda.core.experimental import LaunchConfig, launch
from cuda.core.experimental import Program

code = """
/* these should come from libcudacxx, but I am lazy to set up include paths... */
template<class T, T v>
struct integral_constant { static constexpr T value = v; };
typedef integral_constant<bool, true> true_type;
typedef integral_constant<bool, false> false_type;

template<class T, class U>
struct is_same : false_type {};
 
template<class T>
struct is_same<T, T> : true_type {};

template< class T, class U >
constexpr bool is_same_v = is_same<T, U>::value;
/* *************************************************************************** */

// the point of this demo is: custom struct names can be easily referenced, and no
// need to call nvrtcGetTypeName on host (for which it's not possible to offer a
// Python binding anyway).
struct my_struct {
    int a;
    double b;
};

template<typename T>
__global__ void check_type() {
    // no RTTI on device, so let's do some tricks for the demo
    if constexpr (is_same_v<T, float>) {
        printf("it's float!\\n");
    }
    if constexpr (is_same_v<T, int>) {
        printf("it's int!\\n");
    }
    if constexpr (is_same_v<T, my_struct>) {
        printf("it's my_struct!\\n");
    }
}
"""

dev = Device()
dev.set_current()
arch = "sm_" + "".join(f"{i}" for i in dev.compute_capability)
s = dev.create_stream()

# prepare program
prog = Program(code, code_type="c++")
types = ("float", "int", "my_struct")
mod = prog.compile("cubin",
                   options=("-std=c++17", f"-arch={arch}",),
                   name_expressions=list(f"check_type<{t}>" for t in types))

# prepare launch config
config = LaunchConfig(grid=1, block=1, stream=s)

for t in types:
    # get kernel
    ker = mod.get_kernel(f"check_type<{t}>")
    
    # launch kernel on stream s
    launch(ker, config)
    s.sync()
```
Output:
```
it's float!
it's int!
it's my_struct!
```

One can say, "hey this is neat and we can do it in C++ too! It's not a Python-only thing!" That is certainly true, but it requires a change of the mindset to see this, which could take time to realize.

Let's see how the steps that we covered map to cuda.parallel.
On the high level, cuda.parallel API consists of three stages.
Let's take a look at these stages using the example of parallel reduction:

#. First step returns invocable: ``reduce_into = cudax.reduce_into(d_in, d_out, op, h_init)``.
   Here ``op`` is a Python function that we have to pass to the CUDA kernel.
   The ``cudax.reduce_into`` call starts by compiling ``op`` to LTO-IR, just like we did above.
   It then proceeds to the C++ part, which is responsible for composing a string with C++ code,
   instantiating kernels, and compiling them with NVRTC, just like we did above.
   Result of this compilation is stored inside ``reduce_info`` object.
   From the C++ perspective, runtime values of the provided parameters do not matter at this stage.
   In other words, concrete pointers or shapes of the provided containers can be different on subsequent stages.
#. Second step returns temporary storage needed for parallel algorithm:
   ``temp_storage_size = reduce_into(None, d_input, d_output, h_init)``.
   This storage has to be allocated in device-accessible memory.
   At this stage, no kernels are invoked.

> #. Third step uses allocated temporary storage and kernels retreived from the cubin stored in the ``reduce_info`` object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Third step uses allocated temporary storage and kernels retrieved from the cubin stored in the ``reduce_info`` object:
```
